Add docs on handling sensitive data. (#987)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/source/docs/extend/best-practices/sensitive-state.html.md

---
layout: "extend"
page_title: "Extending Terraform: Sensitive State Best Practices"
sidebar_current: "docs-extend-best-practices-sensitive-state"
description: |-
  Recommendations for handling sensitive information in state.
---

# Handling Sensitive Values in State

Many organizations use Terraform to manage their entire infrastructure, and
it's inevitable that [sensitive information will find its way into
Terraform](/docs/state/sensitive-data.html) in these circumstances. There are a
couple of recommended approaches for managing sensitive state in Terraform.

## Using the `Sensitive` Flag

> When working with a field that is likely to contain sensitive information, it

Reviewer: Nitpick, but I'd reword this as _field that contains information that is likely to be considered as sensitive_. The reason being that I'd not want anyone to use this sentence as an excuse to tuck `Sensitive` to all fields "just in case".

is best to set the
[`Sensitive`](https://godoc.org/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-sdk/helper/schema#Schema.Sensitive)
property on its schema to `true`. This will prevent the field's values from

> showing up in CLI output and in Terraform Cloud. It will not encrypt or obscure

Reviewer: I would make `not encrypt` bold here, to make it stand out.

the value in the state, however.

## Storing Only a Hash

> Providers can also protect sensitive information by simply not storing it.

Reviewer: Technically we are storing a hash of it and hash could be considered as sensitive, especially if it's something like MD5 or SHA1.

Storing a hash of the information instead of the value itself is popular when:

> * The value is set by the provider/the API, and cannot be set in the config

Reviewer: ... _i.e. the field has `Computed` set to `true`_ (to make it clearer?)

* The value does not need to be interpolated in cleartext
* It is useful for other resources or to the provider to know when the value
  has changed.

## Don't Encrypt State

One experiment that has been attempted is allowing the user to provide a PGP
key and a cipher text, and decrypting the value in the provider code before
using it, storing only the cipher text in state. Another variation on this
approach was providing a PGP key that data from an API would be encrypted with
before being set in state, with nothing being set in the config.

Both of these approaches are discouraged and will be removed from the
HashiCorp-supported providers over time. This strategy was tailored to a time
when Terraform's state had to be stored in cleartext on any machine running
`terraform apply`, and was meant to provide a bit of security in that scenario.
With the introduction and use of [enhanced remote
backends](/docs/backends/types/index.html) and especially the availability of
[Terraform Cloud](https://app.terraform.io/), there are now a variety of
backends that will encrypt state at rest and will not store the state in
cleartext on machines running `terraform apply`. This means the original

> problem the PGP key pattern was intended to solve has a better-supported

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
problem the PGP key pattern was intended to solve has a more complete
```

Reviewer: I feel like changing this to "more complete" is overselling it a bit. It's easier encryption at rest with good UX, but I think we're still far away from solving the problem of sensitive data completely.

Reviewer: I feel like changing this to "more complete" is overselling it a bit. It's easier encryption at rest with good UX, but I think we're still far away from solving the problem of sensitive data completely.

solution, and we're deprecating it in favor of that solution.

> The strategies also have drawbacks. They can't be reliably interpolated,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even without comparing it to full state encryption, per-value encryption has major drawbacks. Encrypted values can't be reliably interpolated,
```

That transition seemed a bit odd; here's one possible way you could tweak it.
